1950	"Some areas, such as Pyongyang, benefit from a privileged food situation, because the elites are concentrated there. Conversely, the remote northeastern regions have traditionally been areas, to which people were banished 
1970	"China divided all land owned by the state between farmers. It dissolved all state-run farms which, incidentally, were similar to DPRK’s cooperative farms. Ultimately, when Chinese farmers began to work on the land they owned themselves, the country’s agricultural yield increased rapidly. Within five to six years of implementing the land reform, China’s food production increased 1.3 times.	
1980	The information received by the Commission points to the fact that starvation in the DPRK started.
1980	"The dominant triggering factor in the crisis was the sharp loss of supplies of agricultural inputs following the disruption of the trade with the socialist bloc. The contribution of climatic factors to the agricultural crisis, as stressed by the DPRK’s policymakers, was at most a secondary cause.
The lack of transparency, accountability, and democratic institutions as well as restrictions on freedoms of expression, information and association, prevented the adoption of optimal economic solutions over those in accordance with directives of the Workers’ Party of Korea. The DPRK has evaded structural reforms to the economy and agriculture for fear of losing its control over the population.	
1983	"before mass starvation in the DPRK commenced, Dr Amartya Sen, Nobel laureate and expert in famines and their causes, stated: “Starvation is the characteristic of some people not having enough food to eat. It is not the characteristic of there not being not enough food to eat.” 	
1988	"The trade with the Soviet Union had not only accounted for three-fifths of the DPRK’s total trade.          The World Festival was held in an apparent response to the Republic of Korea’s hosting of the Olympic Games.	
1989	"The Commission also received testimony about the immense expenditures devoted to the 13th World Festival of Youth and Students, which was held.
1990	"The underlying policy derived from the highest level of the state. While a number of the features of this policy have changed. The root causes of the food shortage and mass starvation that has killed, at a minimum, hundreds of thousands of people in the DPRK.   At the Washington Public Hearing, Ms Jo Jin-hye described the malnutrition experienced by her and her family during the famine. the food rations were halved. Therefore, his family had to supplement the ration through the market and trading with China. Another witness also underscored that food became scarce One witness described the development of the “Talligi economy” The country suffered from serious economic difficulties. The economic burden on women also increased as a result of the economic decline and the strict requirements on men to report to their state-assigned workplace even if it was not functioning or salaries and rations were reduced or no longer being paid. Food shortages affecting ordinary soldiers began in the late 1970s and became even more apparent 	.	hungry soldiers began to steal food from farms and private homes in order to compensate for the poor food rations provided by the government. Improvements in the economic and food situation in the DPRK since the worst period of mass starvation can be mainly attributed to spontaneous efforts of the population rather than reforms initiated by the state. Even the formal establishment of general markets may be seen as an attempt to recover control over the informal markets that were created. The famine also created a surge of desperate people fleeing to China that started in the mid-1990s. Many DPRK citizens sought help from ethnic Korean relatives living in Chinese provinces bordering the DPRK. Others sought to work in China for food or money, which they used to buy for themselves and their families.904 Instead of facilitating such coping mechanisms, the government used punishment and violence to deter people from crossing the border. international organizations and non-governmental organizations have been working in extremely difficult conditions imposed by the DPRK authorities. only one-fifth of the WFP’s total aid went to feed the people of an area that contains one-third of the DPRK’s total population. “The North Koreans early in the famine did not let us measure any of the children ourselves; they insisted on doing it. They determined where the ‘sentinel surveillance’ sites would be, which means it is not really an accurate survey. It is better than nothing, but is not accurate because it can be easily politicized.” The economic and financial problems faced by the DPRK in the 1990s, led the DPRK authorities to engage in a number of legal and illegal activities to earn foreign currency. One witness said that a company bought ingredients used for the production of Korean herbal medicine and sold them to a producer of the medicine. In the 1990s, he regularly went to an ordinary prison camp (kyohwaso) to buy opium produced by the prison, which he then sold to a trading company. There has been much debate how many people died from starvation or related diseases in the DPRK . hunger and malnutrition continue to be widespread. Deaths from starvation continue to be reported. The Commission is concerned that structural issues, including laws and policies that violate the right to adequate food and freedom from hunger remain in place which could lead to the recurrence of mass starvation.
1990	The vulnerability of the DPRK’s economic system was apparent before its collapse in the mid-1990s. 	
1991	"Another witness testified that he first started experiencing food scarcity the DPRK authorities launched a “Let’s eat two meals a day” campaign in an attempt to get the population to accept further ration cuts. patriotic rice donation campaign was launched, asking every household to save 10 kilograms of rice and donate it back to the government to feed the military. He estimated that at the time there was a 3-4 per cent malnutrition rate among soldiers. the government launched the “Let’s eat two meals a day” campaign. Later on, the Arduous March rhetoric was put in place to supposedly help people endure increased economic privations and keep them from thinking about and openly discussing alternative economic systems.882 In this context, any critical remarks about underlying political reasons of the situation were considered a political crime and therefore harshly punished. 	
1992	"one witness, then a teenager of 14 years, engaged in business by selling videos on the black market. Because he engaged in this business, he was often arrested. 	
1993	The DPRK authorities knew that neither China, nor the South Asian countries that were approached for help, would provide the external aid necessary to prevent mass starvation and consequent mass deaths.                 China was supplying the DPRK with 77 per cent of its fuel imports and 68 per cent of its food imports. The food situation continued to deteriorate.
1994	"Chinese supply fell to under 280,000 tons as a result of China’s reluctance to continue financing major grain shipments to the DPRK on “friendship terms”. state actions became increasingly harsh towards specific parts of the population. The PDS was suspended in four northern provinces, North and South Hamgyong, Ryanggang and Kangwon. At the Seoul Public Hearing, Mrs C said that in South Hamgyong Province the provision of rations through the PDS stopped former high-level DPRK official Mr Hwang Jang-yop wrote: “People in North Korea were also starving 
the spokesperson of the DPRK Agricultural Commission condemned the reports of hunger in the Western media as a “wicked deception to degrade the socialist image of the DPRK”. 
when the food shortage was already known to the authorities, the DPRK reportedly bought a number of submarines.
1995	"DPRK officials responsible for implementing this duty failed to make a concerted effort to request food aid from the international community.  The public distribution system progressively failed to meet its ration targets even before its collapse. The DPRK authorities announced the receipt of food aid from an international NGO. A woman described the food situation in South Hamgyong Province after 1995. The United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs stated that, for the first time, the DPRK sought their assistance. torrential rains caused devastating floods in the DPRK. the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs stated that, for the first time, the DPRK sought their assistance. The Japanese Government decided to supply a total of 300,000 tons of rice to [the DPRK] from a humanitarian point of view, in response to a request from [the DPRK], which was suffering from a serious food shortage.” one witness started trading by selling items on markets. She also sometimes went to the parents of her husband’s students’ to ask for food. At the Seoul Public Hearing, Mr Kim Hyuk described the situation in the orphanage where he was placed by his father. The authorities in the DPRK were well aware of the country’s deteriorating food situation long before appealing for aid. the DPRK government denied humanitarian access to most of the northeastern provinces where people were dying in very large numbers from hunger and starvation. The four provinces with no access to humanitarian aid (North and South Hamgyong, Ryanggang and Chagang) also correspond to those where the PDS distribution was first stopped. The work started in 1995 when mass starvation was devastating the country. The Keumsusan palace is one example of the monumental buildings built at the height of the famine. The DPRK was aware of the deteriorating food situation well before the first appeal for international aid 
1996	"Kim Jong-il himself acknowledged in a speech that starvation even extended to the army and indicated that revealing this fact would cause the DPRK to appear militarily vulnerable. followed by “the longest spring drought in recorded history”.698 As a result of the natural disasters, the United Nations reported “major devastation for the agricultural sector” and a total of 1.5 million tons of grain lost.699 Additionally, the transportation system was critically affected, hindering the distribution of food to a large part of the population. 3,180,000 tons of food was in short supply, thus causing a sharp decrease in the amount of provisions. Consequently, health condition of people in general deteriorated; infant and child mortality rate increased and diseases like infants’ diarrhoea, respiratory tract infection and tuberculosis broke out. Kim Il-sung University, Kim Jong-il explicitily justified his refusal to undertake structural reforms with the need to protect the political system and its leadership and prevent the type of popular uprising that occurred in Eastern Europe. Kim Jong-il warned that the incipient population movement was causing chaos and disorder in the country and ordered the government to immediately take all necessary actions to prevent it. Another woman testified that her husband was arrested for trading oil the DPRK authorities made an official announcement that the PDS would stop providing food rations until May of that year. his family started selling belongings from their house. After all their belongings ran out, the witness tried to sell cigarettes and vegetables in the market. 	
1997	"the PDS was estimated to be supplying just 6 per cent of the population. facilities called “9-27 camps” were established in every county to crack down on the unauthorized movement of people and in particular children searching for food. “twenty four out of 75 orphans passed away from starvation... internally there was no food subsidized to the orphanages. So what we ate at the time was the remainder of the corn. We dried it and we grinded and turned it into a powder. That’s what we got, but it does not contain any nutrition and because of that, we got constipation.... There was nothing to eat in the orphanage.” the authorities issued a decree on the hoarding and theft of food. This decree stipulated the execution of any individual involved either in stealing grain or trading in it. Military units were deployed to farms to make sure that hungry farmers did not divert part of their farm’s production in order to secure their own survival. she crossed to China to find food and was sold into a forced marriage with an ethnic Korean Chinese man. Kim Jong-il stated: “The imperialist’s aid is a noose of plunder and subjugation aimed at robbing ten and even a hundred things for one thing that is given”. One witness described his work at the North East Asia Bank in the Korean Foreign Insurance Company (KFIC) about 2 million people would starved to death if no international aid were provided.	
1998	"the state was not supplying anyone for large parts of that year. The country’s rapidly deteriorating food situation was reflected in a nutritional survey conducted by the United Nations, which was released. United Nations nutritional survey showed a 62 per cent rate of stunting among children under 9 years old.779 This level of stunting is considered “very high” according to the WHO classification. The high stunting rate indicates that starvation started at the end of the 1980s, as the 9-year olds among the children found to be stunted. Médecins Sans Frontières discontinued its operations in the DPRK citing a “high level policy change to further restrict and limit effective humanitarian aid, which makes it impossible to deliver aid in a principled and accountable manner.” MSF stated that the DPRK’s priority was “more to preserve the self-sufficient ideology than to provide effective and accountable assistance to those who need it most.” this figure may have included migration and may have been inflated to secure additional food aid. Mr Hwang Jong-yop, a high-level defector who fled the DPRK 
1999	"DPRK decreased its international purchases of food 	In the 1999 Criminal Code, the chapter on “Offenses against the management of the Socialist Economy” comprised only eight articles. In 2004, the chapter was renamed “Offences against the management of the Economy” and expanded to 74 articles. at the same time that it was cutting commercial grain imports to less than 200,000 metric tons, the government reportedly used its foreign currency for the purchase of 40 MiG-29 fighter jets from Belarus and 8 military helicopters from Kazakhstan. "
2000	"reports and studies indicate that large portions of the population are still facing hunger and malnutrition. the DPRK experienced drought which severely affected wheat, barley and potato crops. The drought also led to an acute loss of soil moisture, the depletion of reservoirs and the crippling of irrigation systems. when the famine had already peaked, Kim Jong-il issued a decree to treat those who only crossed the border in need of food with a degree of leniency. Rodong Sinmun reported the official position of the DPRK on humanitarian aid: “The imperialists’ aid is a tool of aggression ... a dangerous toxin which brings about poverty, famine and death, not prosperity.” Action Against Hunger (AAH) decided to stop its programme to provide humanitarian aid to children in the DPRK, because the authorities denied them access to the most vulnerable children."	
2001	"Daniel Goodkind and Loraine West concluded that excess deaths due to the famine most likely numbered between 600,000 and one million in the period between 1995 and 2000. Mr Goodkind and Ms West revised their earlier estimates of excess deaths downward to 490,000.999 The research group of the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health estimated 2.1 million deaths for the period of 1995 to 1998. 
2002	"the DPRK introduced the “7.1 Economic Management Improvement Measures” the DPRK declared in 2002 that the infant mortality rate increased from 27 per 1000 live births in 1993 to 48 per 1000 live births in 1999. with cooperation from the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Food Programme, the government of the DPRK conducted a survey of 6,000 households with children younger than seven years using multiple-stage sampling methods. According to various reports, including the DPRK’s own report to various international organizations such as the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the International Federation of Red Cross Societies, over 60 per cent of DPRK children under the age of five suffered from acute respiratory infections and over 20 per cent suffered from diarrhoea. the DPRK government declared in its second report to the CRC that it was taking measures to provide family environments for children who had lost their parents and that it was paying great attention to child rearing at both the familial and societal levels. The government claimed that most orphans are sent to institutions where they can benefit from government protection. The food crisis has also caused many women to leave the DPRK.811 Because women have the primary role in obtaining food, they have represented the majority of DPRK nationals leaving the country. Fiona Terry, then research director of MSF, summarized the reasons why humanitarian organizations like MSF had stopped their operations in the DPRK.
2003	"In order to handle this situation, the authorities decided to legalize the black market
2004	"	reform of the Criminal Code regularized these facilities. It established “labour training” for up to two years as the punishment for a growing number of economic and social crimes.
2005	"	the DPRK signed an agreement to eliminate its nuclear programmes in exchange for aid and security ttassurances. In the same year, the World Food Programme (WFP) representative reportedly stated: “What the government is able to provide the people now, these 250 grams a day, is a starvation ration.” The DPRK continues to operate the PDS and has tried on various occasions to re-launch it while cracking down on the “informal economy”.741 According to the FAO and the WFP, the Government tried to revive the PDS the United Nations Secretary-General noted that the authorities of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea are under a responsibility to reduce military/defence expenditure and ensure equitable re-allocation of resources to respond effectively to the food crisis and other areas needing development. the 2005 reform of the DPRK Code of Criminal Procedure introduced a time limit of two months during which the interrogation and related pre-trial detention must be concluded. 
2006	"	new floods hit the DPRK. The United Nations reported that the summer floods decimated domestic food production, placing the vulnerable population at risk of rising malnutrition during the winter months. there was a re-emergence in testimonies of cannibalism attributed to the economic breakdown and food shortages. the WFP drastically scaled down its programme after the North Korean government imposed new restrictions, limiting the organization’s size and ability to distribute and monitor its shipments.
2007	"	series of “additional clauses” were introduced by way of a decision issued by the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly. 
2008	"it was estimated that informal economic activities accounted for 78 per cent of the total income of DPRK households. SSD agents arrested the 20-year old son of a witness in Hoeryoung County, North Hamgyong Province. The victim had converted to Christianity and had been in contact with a Korean-American pastor in China. rations decreased from 350 grams at the beginning of the year to 250 grams in May the Government target of 573 grams per day has not been attained the WFP reported that the DPRK was experiencing acute food shortages. Testimony from officials involved indicates that DPRK authorities engaged in a number of criminal activities to earn foreign currency. Revenue from criminal activity has been estimated to be as much as USD 500 million per year in 2008"	
2009	"the government announced that it would exchange new currency for old currency at the rate of 100:1. DPRK citizens were given only one week to exchange their old notes for the new currency. the market price for rice was fluctuating around the 2,000 won. The number of street children began to increase again. The DPRK took a further step against the markets by banning the use of foreign currencies Despite all the evidence to the contrary, the delegation of the DPRK claimed in its Universal Periodic Review the DPRK government reported that “The state has invariably maintained, ever since the early days of its founding, the principled stand that children are the future and the ‘Kings’ of the country.”775 However, children have been among the most affected by the dire food situation. the DPRK was one of 18 countries with the highest prevalence of moderate and severe stunting among children aunder the age of five years. Between 2003 and 2008, 45 per cent of children under five in the DPRK were stunted. the economic situation worsened in the DPRK and the number of kotjebi has reportedly increased. One man testified that, in 2009, he was caught by the State Security Department (SSD) while calling abroad from his Chinese mobile phone. 	
2010	"no food was distributed. She estimates that 40 per cent of the population could not afford buying any food when she left.729 The witness emphasized: “Those who do not have money, will starve.” The non-governmental humanitarian organization Good Friends reported the death by starvation of thousands of people in Sunchon and Pyongsong. Statistics of the Workers’ Party of Korea in Sinuiju cited by Good Friends indicated that, after 20 February 2010, about three hundred people died, while more than 1,000 households did not have food and were at risk of starvation. The Workers’ Party of Korea stated that there will be no immediate government support and announced that the government “cannot take any immediate measures due to the worse than expected food situation.”763 As a measure of last resort, the authorities lifted restrictions on private markets again. Kim Jong-un issued an order to SSD and MPS to get rid of kotjebi and homeless adults in Pyongyang before holding the Third Conference of the Workers’ Party of Korea that took place on 28 September 2010 and prepared his succession to become the Supreme Leader."	
2011	"the DPRK allowed the filming of children who were severely malnourished in rural areas of the DPRK. WFP reported that the PDS was distributing 200 gram rations, one third of an adult's normal daily requirement. the United Nations reported that more than 6 million people in the DPRK were in urgent need of food aid. The situation of farmers remains critical in terms of food security. the manager of the collective farm told the farmers that they have not met their quota and that “the farm had no obligation to feed them.”	
2012	"the price of rice soared and most people could no longer afford it. “The poor and the weak die of hunger”, she added. more than 10,000 people reportedly died of hunger in North and South Hwanghae Provinces. One witness saw 12 people die of hunger in her region the DPRK government reportedly adopted a new set of economic reforms. The Commission has received only limited information about these reforms. A farmer stated, “In 2012, we were told that we could keep 90 per cent of the harvest. ... But when it was harvest time, the military came and took everything.” Luxury goods expenditure by the DPRK rose to USD 645.8 million (470 million euros) "	
2013	"Food may be available in the markets, but the price of items effectively excludes a large portion of the population. Ironically, in a country that has forcefully denounced capitalism, affordability continues to be a major issue for the poor and their situation appears to have worsened. The graphic below shows the evolution of the price of rice in the DPRK. Another witness from Chongjin testified that in 2012 she did not receive any food rations. she received one kilogram of rations in January and another kilogram in March. She stated that the food situation has become worse since Kim Jong-un came to power. the DPRK authorities reportedly provided rations of 400 grams per day between January and May, and 390 grams per day in June and July, leading to an average ration size of 397 grams per day for the entire period from January to July 2013. there was a quarrel about food in Regiment 27 based in Musan, North Hamgyong Province. A soldier was caught eating leftover rice during the night. He was beaten by others soldiers. He was enraged to be treated like this because he was hungry. He used his gun and killed several soldiers. Kim Jong-un ordered the KPA to construct a “world-class” ski resort that would rival the winter sports facilities that are being built in the ROK in preparation of the ROK’s hosting of the 2018 Winter Olympic Games.  Reportedly, this was a sharp increase from the average of USD 300 million a year under Kim Jong-il.
2014	"Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un called for “decisive improvement in guidance and management of economic projects”. However, measures for agricultural reform and opening the economy were not mentioned in his speech. 